Elm has an interesting website that has online editor with plenty of examples from which to choose. It is fun to jump right in, and, without having to install anything, the language feels accessible. However, I had a hard time trying to get the examples to become a little more complex. This probably has to do with having absolutely zero knowledge of Elm or functional reactive programming (FRP). The snippets of code felt isolated and disjointed. I really didn’t have much of an idea on how to construct an actual program.

Evan Czaplicki, the creator of Elm, wrote his thesis on Elm and concurrent FRP for functional GUIs. The publication starts off with a history of FRP. I cannot say that this was the most engaging reading. One the paper, however, veers back to the subject of Elm it is easier to read. Evan does a good job of explaining how FRP works, and how it works specific to Elm. On a global level, things started to make sense. Some of the hole from the examples in the online editor started to fill in. The paper certainly did not make me an expert in the language, but it provided some guidelines as to where I will be headed. One thing I did find a bit annoying about the thesis is that the examples of code snippets do not seem to work when typed directly into the online editor. This was a bit frustrating. I think I was missing some “Import” statements. I am guessing that the thesis was written before the online editor.

The Learn page on the Elm website has lots of great information from novice to advanced. For me good documentation is important. I can muddle my way through some things, and if I cannot then i know which questions to ask. I have already asked a few questions on the Elm IRC channel. I received several quick answers, and people were simple questions. The Elm mailing list is quite active. Most of the discussions are, for the moment, above my head. It is good to know that there are so many people on the mailing list who want to discuss Elm and help others learn it. I have been stalling long enough with this project. It is time to get my feet wet. 